aws static website component yaml blog post (#1679)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/aws-static-website-component/index.md

---
title: Deploy a React App to AWS using 11 lines of YAML
date: 2022-06-27
meta_desc: Learn how to easily deploy your static website using the AWS Static Website Component. 

> meta_image: "" 

Author: OK, is this like a preview image that gets shown on the site?

> meta_image: "" 

Reviewer: Yes. You’ll see examples in other blog posts, usually as a file named meta.png. https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-hugo/blob/master/BLOGGING.md#social-meta-images

authors:
    - sean-holung
tags:
    - aws
    - yaml
    - configuration
    - components

>     - website

Author: cool, I was wondering if there was a fixed set of tags.

The component is designed to be simple to use and accessible to a broad range of developers. The only prerequisites are a basic knowledge of YAML or JSON, an AWS account, and an understanding of what a static website is. Even if you’re not used to thinking about infrastructure as code (IaC), you can use the component and let it handle the complexities that make setting up a website so time consuming.

You will need to have Pulumi on your machine to use the component because you run the `pulumi up` command to deploy the website. There’s a link to the [installation instructions](#Install) at the end of this article. You’ll also need an AWS account.

## What the Component Does

> As we said, the component deploys a static website to AWS and, optionally, a CloudFront CDN. You simply add a few lines of code, set a few configuration parameters, run `pulumi up` and let the component do the rest. The component sets up:

Author: agreed this sounds better.

* An Amazon S3 bucket
* An Amazon CloudFront CDN (optional)
    * An Amazon Route 53 DNS record
    * An Amazon Certificate Manager

## Some Examples

> Let’s look at two examples of how to use the component. You’ll find both examples and more at [https://gist.github.com/sean1588/f6ca2e09550e53c869259d569f29e9a1](https://gist.github.com/sean1588/f6ca2e09550e53c869259d569f29e9a1). We’re going to use YAML in this post but the gist also contains the JSON equivalents.

Author: ahh yes, I think we can get rid of this. Roberta had added this to the post. The gist wasa really meant just to be for her reference when writing and said I would link a repo with examples when we publish. thanks!

## Create a Website

This YAML code creates a basic static website.

```yaml
name: react-static-website
runtime: yaml
description: Example of deploying React with Pulumi
resources:
  web:
    type: "aws-static-website:index:Website"
    properties:

>       sitePath: "../build"

Author: ahhh.... yes good catch. yeah you are correct. public is what hugo produced.

Finally, you’ll probably want to know the URL of your new site once it’s deployed. That’s what the **outputs** line does. If you’ll remember, **websiteURL** is one of the outputs that the component provides.

Remember, even though there are a few terms in the code you might be unfamiliar with, you can simply cut and paste the code in the gist.

### Get Started

To get started, go to the folder that contains your static website files. Then, follow these steps.

1. Create a directory named **infrastructure** with this command:

```bash
mkdir infrastructure && cd infrastructure

```

1. You’re now in the **infrastructure** directory. Generate a **Pulumi.yaml** file with this command:

```bash
pulumi new aws-yaml
```

Here’s an example of what the final directory structure looks like.

```
| react-website
├── build
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── main.css
├── infrastructure
│   ├── Pulumi.yaml
```

> **Note:** Pulumi will add some other files to the **infrastructure** directory but you can ignore them.

Author: I definitely agree and did mention this to Roberta during the review and she felt it would be best to word it this way as to not distract the user and not need to go into an explanation of stacks. I'll see if I can come up with a rewording of this, because I also feel we shouldn't be saying to just ignore the files.

1. Copy the resources section and the outputs section from the example and add it to the end of the **Pulumi.yaml** file.

```yaml
resources:
web:
    type: "aws-static-website:index:Website"
    properties:
    sitePath: "../my-website/public"
outputs:
websiteURL: ${web.websiteURL}
```

### Deploy the Website

To deploy the website, type `pulumi up`. You’ll first see a preview of all the resources that will be created. You then confirm that you want to proceed and Pulumi deploys the website.

### What You Gain

The entire example has 10 lines of YAML code. With this, you will get an S3 bucket provisioned with all of your website’s contents. If you looked at the preview screen when you ran `pulumi up`, you saw the many resources that actually had to be deployed to create the site. You never see any of that complexity. Here’s an example of what’s happening under the hood.

![hugo-example-simple](react-example-simple.png)

> If you click **View Live**, you will go to the Pulumi Console, where you can see all of the information available about a deployment and explore the resources that were deployed. For example, you can see a resource graph and a list of resources. Here’s an example of a resource graph.

Author: good to know that we have an official way of referencing it now!

![graph-view](graph-view-simple-react.png)

After Pulumi deploys the website, it will display any outputs you specified which, in our example, is the URL of the site.  as well as the number of resources created.

![pulumi-output-simple](react-simple-output.png)

## Input Properties

> The AWS Static Website has several input properties. Here are three of the most commonly used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AWS Static Website component has several input properties. Here are three of the most commonly used.
```

> * **sitePath** - the root directory that contains the website’s contents (required).
> * **withCDN** - sets a flag to provision a CloudFront CDN.
> * **targetDomain** - the domain that serves the content. A Route53 hosted zone must exist for this domain if you specify this option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `sitePath` - the root directory that contains the website’s contents (required).
* `withCDN` - sets a flag to provision a CloudFront CDN.
* `targetDomain` - the domain that serves the content. A Route53 hosted zone must exist for this domain if you specify this option.
```

> See the component’s [reference page](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/aws-static-website/) for the others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the component’s [reference page]({{< relref "/registry/packages/aws-static-website" >}}) for the others.
```

## Output Properties

> The AWS Static Website has several output properties. The one you’ll probably use the most is **websiteURL**, which is the URL to access the website. See the component’s [reference page](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/aws-static-website/) for the others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AWS Static Website component has several output properties. The one you’ll probably use the most is `websiteURL`, which is the URL to access the website. See the component’s [reference page]({{< relref "/registry/packages/aws-static-website" >}}) for the others.
```

## Add a CloudFront CDN

To add a CloudFront CDN, you only need to add one more line of code.

```
# Example using a CloudFront CDN
# YAML
name: react-static-website
runtime: yaml
description: Example of deploying React with Pulumi
resources:
  web:
    type: "aws-static-website:index:Website"
    properties:

>       sitePath: "./public"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      sitePath: "./my-website/build"
```

      withCDN: true
outputs:
  websiteURL: ${web.websiteURL}
```

> All you have to do is add the line: **withCDN: true** and the component sets up the CDN instance for you. Again, run `pulumi up`, confirm that you want to proceed, and Pulumi deploys the website. Here’s an example of what you’ll see.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All you have to do is add the line `withCDN: true` and the component sets up the CDN instance for you. Again, run `pulumi up`, confirm that you want to proceed, and Pulumi deploys the website. Here’s an example of what you’ll see.
```

If you want to take down a site, run `pulumi destroy`. Pulumi marks all the resources for deletion. It first previews the changes and, if you confirm, removes them from your AWS account. You don’t have to worry that you’ll forget to remove some resource and continue to pay for it. Here’s an example of what you’d see if you ran `pulumi destroy` on a basic static website.

![pulumi-destroy](react-simple-destroy.png)

## Learn More

If you’re curious and want to learn more about Pulumi and the AWS Static Website component, here are a few links you might find interesting:

* You can examine the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws-static-website) that contains the code for the component.
* If you want to quickly try out the component, this [GitHub repo](https://github.com/sean1588/create-react-app-pulumi) houses a complete React example project that you can clone.
* If you want to learn about other Pulumi components, take a look at the [registry page](https://pulumi.com/registry), which catalogs them all.

> * If you want to delve deeper into Pulumi, the [Getting Started](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/) guide is a good first step.
> * If you’re interested in learning more about Pulumi concepts, try the [Architecture & Concepts](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you want to delve deeper into Pulumi, the [Getting Started]({{< relref "/docs/get-started"  >}}) guide is a good first step.
* If you’re interested in learning more about Pulumi concepts, try the [Architecture & Concepts]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts" >}}) page.
```

## Install Pulumi

> To install Pulumi for AWS, go to [Before You Begin](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/aws/begin/). There are instructions for macOS, Windows and Linux. You need to have an AWS account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install Pulumi for AWS, go to [Before You Begin]({{< relref "/docs/get-started/aws/begin" >}}). There are instructions for macOS, Windows and Linux. You need to have an AWS account.
```

---
title: Introducing the AWS Static Website Component
date: 2022-06-27
meta_desc: Learn how to easily deploy your static website using the AWS Static Website Component. 
meta_image: "" 
authors:

>     - sean-holung

Author: temporarily put me here, since we do not yet have roberta as an author in our system and is causing errors
